How can you gain audience interaction at the beginning of a presentation?
Start with a question your audience can answer.

What should you always build a presentation around?
your central message

How can you best finish a presentation?
Leave a "so there you have it" factor.

What must you always do at the start of a presentation to gain your audience's attention?
Let the audience know what's in it for them.

You are going to present to an audience that doesn't know you. How can you best establish your credibility?
Present your expertise with modesty.

You're presenting in front of 100 employees in your company. What is the most effective visual aid you can use?
individual handouts, along with gaps in your presentation

If you are nervous about presenting to an audience strange to you, when should you arrive?
very early so you can check out the room and the equipment

If you are uncomfortable presenting, should you chat with audience members before you begin your presentation?
Yes, because you can find some friends this way.

You are scheduled to give a presentation in a hotel conference room. What does it mean to make yourself "bulletproof" regarding the presentation?
Have a backup plan in case the room's technology fails.

Every time you are asked to give a presentation you get very nervous. How can self-talk alleviate your nervousness?
by telling yourself it'll be fine until you start believing it'll be fine

Elena is an experienced presenter. Still, how should Elena do a run-through before giving a presentation?
She should do a run-through of the first minute of her presentation.

When you are giving a presentation that you're nervous about, why should you ask questions during the presentation?
so you can see that the audience is with you and following what you're saying

Your nervousness leads you to conduct your presentation sitting at the projector table. Should you do this if you want to engage with your audience?
No, because standing shows respect to your audience.

What is the biggest drawback of giving out notes before you do your presentation?
The preview of the presentation takes away the excitement.

Which type of audience member is the most difficult to deal with?
ones who are chipper-in-ers

When building PowerPoint slides, when should you avoid having bullet points appear on the slide one by one?
when the bullet points are related to each other

If you are giving a long presentation on a complex topic, what should you intersperse your presentation with?
real life stories

What is one critical rule you should always follow regarding your appearance when giving a presentation?
Never wear anything districting.

Which simple trick can you do to ensure your presentation doesn't go over the allotted time?
Have a section near the end you can shorten or skip altogether.

Chan is going to present to a company's IT department. He understands that this group generally works in t-shirts and jeans. How should Chan dress?
slightly smarter

What is the best advice about body language you can give a colleague who is presenting for the first time?
Be natural and comfortable.

From your audience's perspective, why is it important for you to sign post when you're giving a presentation?
so your audience knows you're keeping your presentation to the promised time

Your training presentation is going to include some group work. Even though it has some downsides, which room layout should you select?
cafe style

You're going to give an hour-long presentation to 16 salespeople, and you get to choose the room layout. Which layout is most ideal?
U shape table

You're presenting to a small group and plan to use flip charts. What should you do with the notes you want to include in your presentation?
Have them on a single sheet of paper on a table or chair next to the flip charts.

You ask your prepared questions to your audience, but you're not getting responses. Which trick can you use to elicit their responses?
Split the audience in to pairs to consider your questions, then ask them again.

Your presentation is scheduled for an hour. What's the best way to utilize the time and keep your audience engaged throughout your presentation?
Have audience members get in groups and do a small presentation of their own.

How can you overcome an audience's tendency toward microsleeps when you are presenting?
State your important points twice.

What is the first step when practicing diaphragmatic breathing?
Put one hand on your chest and the other hand on your stomach.

Which sequence of steps should you take before you practice making sound, while using actionable theater techniques?
Stand on your spine, make sustained eye contact, and breathe from your diaphragm.

Which method should you use when you start to feel uncomfortable while maintaining eye contact?
Put your mind’s eye or mental focus in your feet or on the top of your head.

Why do you want to put one hand on your chest and the other on your stomach when practicing diaphragm breathing?
It helps you to focus on only breathing from the diaphragm.

How should you begin the process of being aware of your spine?
First, place your feet underneath your hips, with your toes facing forward and your knees soft and pliant.


